To make the most efficient use of the scripts that are part of
NichePy you may want to create ecological niche/species
distribution models in batch mode.

We included examples for running batch jobs in both OpenModeller
and Maxent. You will need to modify these scripts to your needs.

OPENMODELLER:

Contained in this folder are 2 bash scripts that we use to run
models in batch mode through the headless version of OpenModeller 
on the command line.

OpenModeller can generate a variety of models using different 
approaches. To our knowledge, the Maxent implementation in OM
does currently not produce results identical to Maxent. So if
you want to run Maxent models you are probably better off using
Maxent directly at this point in time.

CSHtoOM.sh converts the comma-delimited csv files generated by
nicheIdentity or nicheBackground into tab-delimited text files
suitable as input to OM. You can also use these files as input 
for the GUI version of OM. The input and output of CSVtoOM.sh
is explained in the comments in the script.

OmConsoleBatch.sh is a wrapper that modifies the OM input file
request.txt and passes it on to OM. Please refer to the comments
in OmConsoleBatch.sh to get a general idea of what the wrapper 
does. This script is a brute-force approach to run batch jobs
through OM's cli program om_console and will require you to 
modify at least the request.txt file to get to work for your 
specific analysis. In addition, you will need a functioning 
installation of om_console.
    The om_console input file specification can be found here:
http://openmodeller.sourceforge.net/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=27&Itemid=11
    In order to run OM without its GUI you will probably need to 
    build from source:
http://openmodeller.sourceforge.net/INSTALL.html

MAXENT:

MaxentBatchExample.sh should give you an idea for how to run
Maxent from the command line in batch mode. Options for Maxent
change frequently and flags are regularly deprecated. Please
refer to the Maxent documentation for the options supported by 
the version of Maxent you downloaded.
